$ cat notes.txt
One can create a new dataset with 'datalad create [--description] PATH'.
The dataset is created empty

The command "datalad save [-m] PATH" saves the file
(modifications) to history. Note to self:
Always use informative, concise commit messages.

The command 'datalad clone URL/PATH [PATH]'
installs a dataset from e.g., a URL or a path.
If you install a dataset into an existing
dataset (as a subdataset), remember to specify the
root of the superdataset with the '-d' option.

There are two useful functions to display changes between two
states of a dataset: "datalad diff -f/--from COMMIT -t/--to COMMIT"
and "git diff COMMIT COMMIT", where COMMIT is a shasum of a commit
in the history.

The datalad run command can record the impact a script or command has on a Dataset.
In its simplest form, datalad run only takes a commit message and the command that
should be executed.

Any datalad run command can be re-executed by using its commit shasum as an argument
in datalad rerun CHECKSUM. DataLad will take information from the run record of the original
commit, and re-execute it. If no changes happen with a rerun, the command will not be written
to history. Note: you can also rerun a datalad rerun command!

You should specify all files that a command takes as input with an -i/--input flag. These
files will be retrieved prior to the command execution. Any content that is modified or
produced by the command should be specified with an -o/--output flag. Upon a run or rerun
of the command, the contents of these files will get unlocked so that they can be modified.

Important! If the dataset is not "clean" (a datalad status output is empty),
datalad run will not work - you will have to save modifications present in your
dataset.
A suboptimal alternative is the --explicit flag,
used to record only those changes done
to the files listed with --output flags.

A source to install a dataset from can also be a path,
for example as in "datalad clone ../DataLad-101".

Just as in creating datasets, you can add a
description on the location of the new dataset clone
with the -D/--description option.

Note that subdatasets will not be installed by default,
but are only registered in the superdataset -- you will
have to do a "datalad get -n PATH/TO/SUBDATASET"
to install the subdataset for file availability meta data.
The -n/--no-data options prevents that file contents are
also downloaded.

Note that a recursive "datalad get" would install all further
registered subdatasets underneath a subdataset, so a safer
way to proceed is to set a decent --recursion-limit:
"datalad get -n -r --recursion-limit 2 <subds>"

The command "git annex whereis PATH" lists the repositories that have
the file content of an annexed file. When using "datalad get" to retrieve
file content, those repositories will be queried.

To update a shared dataset, run the command "datalad update --merge".
This command will query its origin for changes, and integrate the
changes into the dataset.

To update from a dataset with a shared history, you
need to add this dataset as a sibling to your dataset.
"Adding a sibling" means providing DataLad with info about
the location of a dataset, and a name for it. Afterwards,
a "datalad update --merge -s name" will integrate the changes
made to the sibling into the dataset.
A safe step in between is to do a "datalad update -s name"
and checkout the changes with "git/datalad diff"
to remotes/origin/master

Configurations for datasets exist on different levels
(systemwide, global, and local), and in different types
of files (not version controlled (git)config files, or
version controlled .datalad/config, .gitattributes, or
gitmodules files), or environment variables.
With the exception of .gitattributes, all configuration
files share a common structure, and can be modified with
the git config command, but also with an editor by hand.

Depending on whether a configuration file is version
controlled or not, the configurations will be shared together
with the dataset. More specific configurations and not-shared
configurations will always take precedence over more global or
shared configurations, and environment variables take precedence
over configurations in files.

The git config --list --show-origin command is a useful tool
to give an overview over existing configurations. Particularly
important may be the .gitattributes file, in which one can set
rules for git-annex about which files should be version-controlled
with Git instead of being annexed.

It can be useful to use pre-configured procedures that can apply
configurations, create files or file hierarchies, or perform
arbitrary tasks in datasets. They can be shipped with DataLad,
its extensions, or datasets, and you can even write your own
procedures and distribute them. The "datalad run-procedure"
command is used to apply such a procedure to a dataset. Procedures
shipped with DataLad or its extensions starting with a "cfg" prefix
can also be applied at the creation of a dataset with
"datalad create -c <PROC-NAME> <PATH>" (omitting the "cfg" prefix).

